ComputeOperands Doc (#71)
lambdaclass/cairo-vm.go: README.md

- **identifiers:** User-defined symbols in the Cairo code representing variables, functions, classes, etc. with unique names. The expected offset, type and its corresponding information is provided for each identifier

    For example, the identifier representing the main function (usually the entrypoint of the program) is of `function` type, and a list of decorators wrappers (if there are any) are provided as additional information.

>     Another example is a fuser defined struct, is of `struct` type, it provides its size, the members it contains (with its information) and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Another example is a user defined struct, is of `struct` type, it provides its size, the members it contains (with its information) and more.
```

### Instruction Decoding and Execution

*Compute operands*

> Once the instruction has been decoded, it is executed by the main loop `run_instruction` whose first function is compute operands. This function is in charge of

Reviewer 2: run_instruction is not the main loop

> calculating the addresses of the operands and fetch them from memory. If the function could not fetch them from the memory then they are deduced from the other operands and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
calculating the addresses of the operands and fetching them from memory. If the function could not fetch them from the memory then they are deduced from the other operands and
```

	}
	op0, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op0_addr)

	op1_addr, err := vm.RunContext.ComputeOp1Addr(instruction, op0)
	if err != nil {
		return Operands{}, fmt.Errorf("FailedToComputeOp1Addr: %s", err)
	}
	op1, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op1_addr)

	if op0 == nil {
		deducedOp0, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp0(&instruction, dst, op1)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op0 = deducedOp0
		if op0 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op0_addr, op0)
		}
		res = deducedRes
	}

	if op1 == nil {
		deducedOp1, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp1(instruction, dst, op0)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op1 = deducedOp1
		if op1 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op1_addr, op1)
		}
		if res == nil {
			res = deducedRes
		}
	}

	if res == nil {
		res, err = vm.ComputeRes(instruction, *op0, *op1)

		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
	}

	if dst == nil {
		deducedDst := vm.DeduceDst(instruction, res)
		dst = deducedDst
		if dst != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(dst_addr, dst)
		}
	}

	operands := Operands{
		Dst: *dst,
		Op0: *op0,
		Op1: *op1,
		Res: res,
	}
	return operands, nil
}
```

*ComputeDstAddr*

> The function `ComputeDstAddress` computes the address of value that will be stored in the Destination register. It checks which is the destination register (wether AP or FP) and gets the direction from the run_context then if the instruction offset is negativa it substract from the address the offset otherwise it adds the offset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The method `ComputeDstAddress` computes the address of value that will be stored in the Destination operand. It checks which  register is the dst relative to (wether AP or FP) and gets the direction by adding the instruction's first offset (off0) to the corresponding register.
```

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeDstAddr(instruction Instruction) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable
	switch instruction.DstReg {
	case AP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case FP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	}

	if instruction.Off0 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off0))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off0))
	}

}
```
*ComputeOp0Addr*

The process is similar to compute the dst addr

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeOp0Addr(instruction Instruction) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable
	switch instruction.Op0Reg {
	case AP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case FP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	}

	if instruction.Off1 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off1))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off1))
	}
}

```

*ComputeOp1Addr*

> It computes the address of `Op1` based on  the `Op0` register and the kind of Address the instruction has for `Op1`, If its address is `Op1SrcFp` it calcualtes the direction from Fp register, if it is `Op1SrcAp` then if calculates it if from Ap register. If it is an immediate then checks if the offset 2 is 1 and calculates it from the `Pc`. Finally if its an `Op1SrcOp0` it checks the `Op0` and calculates the direction from it. Then if performs and addition or a substraction if the `Off2` is negative or positive.

Reviewer 2: op0 is not a register, it is an operand

	case Op1SrcAP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case Op1SrcImm:
		if instruction.Off2 == 1 {
			base_addr = run_context.Pc
		} else {
			base_addr = memory.NewRelocatable(0, 0)
			return memory.Relocatable{}, &VirtualMachineError{Msg: "UnknownOp0"}
		}
	case Op1SrcOp0:
		if op0 == nil {
			return memory.Relocatable{}, errors.New("Unknown Op0")
		}
		rel, is_rel := op0.GetRelocatable()
		if is_rel {
			base_addr = rel
		} else {
			return memory.Relocatable{}, errors.New("AddressNotRelocatable")
		}
	}

	if instruction.Off2 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off2))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off2))
	}
}
```

*DeduceOp0*

deduces the value of `Op0` if possible (based on `dst` and `Op1`) otherwise it returns a nil.
if res is deduced in th process returns its deduced value as well

```go
func (vm *VirtualMachine) DeduceOp0(instruction *Instruction, dst *memory.MaybeRelocatable, op1 *memory.MaybeRelocatable) (deduced_op0 *memory.MaybeRelocatable, deduced_res *memory.MaybeRelocatable, error error) {
	switch instruction.Opcode {
	case Call:
		deduced_op0 := vm.RunContext.Pc
		deduced_op0.Offset += instruction.Size()

> 		return memory.NewMaybeRelocatableRelocatable(deduced_op0), nil, nil

Reviewer 2: Describe what the code does

	case AssertEq:
		switch instruction.ResLogic {
		case ResAdd:
			if dst != nil && op1 != nil {
				deduced_op0, err := dst.Sub(*op1)
				if err != nil {
					return nil, nil, err
				}
				return &deduced_op0, dst, nil
			}
		case ResMul:
			if dst != nil && op1 != nil {
				dst_felt, dst_is_felt := dst.GetFelt()
				op1_felt, op1_is_felt := op1.GetFelt()
				if dst_is_felt && op1_is_felt && !op1_felt.IsZero() {
					return memory.NewMaybeRelocatableFelt(dst_felt.Div(op1_felt)), dst, nil

				}
			}
		}
	}
	return nil, nil, nil
}
```

*DeduceOp1*

Like `DeducedOp0` it tries to deduce the value of op1 if it is possible (based on dst and op0), it does so only if the Opcode is and AssertEq otherwise it returns a nil.
if res is deduced in th process returns its deduced value as well

```go
func (vm *VirtualMachine) DeduceOp1(instruction Instruction, dst *memory.MaybeRelocatable, op0 *memory.MaybeRelocatable) (*memory.MaybeRelocatable, *memory.MaybeRelocatable, error) {
	if instruction.Opcode == AssertEq {
		switch instruction.ResLogic {
		case ResOp1:
			return dst, dst, nil
		case ResAdd:
			if op0 != nil && dst != nil {
				dst_rel, err := dst.Sub(*op0)

> 				if err != nil {

Reviewer 2: Describe what the code does

					return nil, nil, err
				}
				return &dst_rel, dst, nil
			}
		case ResMul:
			dst_felt, dst_is_felt := dst.GetFelt()
			op0_felt, op0_is_felt := op0.GetFelt()
			if dst_is_felt && op0_is_felt && !op0_felt.IsZero() {
				res := memory.NewMaybeRelocatableFelt(dst_felt.Div(op0_felt))
				return res, dst, nil
			}
		}
	}
	return nil, nil, nil
}

```
*ComputeRes*

If the Res value has not been deduced in the previous steps then it is computed based on the `Op0` and `Op1` values and the res logic stored in the instruction.
 if the value is `Unscontrained` then a nil is returned. 

```go
func (vm *VirtualMachine) ComputeRes(instruction Instruction, op0 memory.MaybeRelocatable, op1 memory.MaybeRelocatable) (*memory.MaybeRelocatable, error) {
	switch instruction.ResLogic {
	case ResOp1:
		return &op1, nil

	case ResAdd:
		maybe_rel, err := op0.Add(op1)
		if err != nil {

> 			return nil, err

Reviewer 2: Describe the logic of the method

		}
		return &maybe_rel, nil

	case ResMul:
		num_op0, m_type := op0.GetFelt()
		num_op1, other_type := op1.GetFelt()
		if m_type && other_type {
			result := memory.NewMaybeRelocatableFelt(num_op0.Mul(num_op1))
			return result, nil
		} else {
			return nil, errors.New("ComputeResRelocatableMul")
		}

	case ResUnconstrained:
		return nil, nil
	}
	return nil, nil
}
```

*DeduceDst*

> if the destination value has not been calculated before then it is deduced based on the Res value. If the opcode is an `AssertEq` then dst is similar to res.

Reviewer 2: Only similar?

> If it is a `Call` then is value is calculated in base of the `Fp` register 

Reviewer 2: It takes the value of the fp register

```go
func (vm *VirtualMachine) DeduceDst(instruction Instruction, res *memory.MaybeRelocatable) *memory.MaybeRelocatable {
	switch instruction.Opcode {
	case AssertEq:
		return res
	case Call:
		return memory.NewMaybeRelocatableRelocatable(vm.RunContext.Fp)

	}
	return nil
}
```

### CairoRunner

Now that can can execute cairo steps, lets look at the VM's initialization step.

> We will begin by creating our `CairoRunnerc`:

Reviewer 2: Remove typo

#### Compute operands

> Once the instruction has been decoded, it is executed by `run_instruction` whose first function is to compute operands. This function is in charge of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the instruction has been decoded, it is executed by `RunInstruction` whose first function is to compute operands. This function is in charge of
```

> calculating the addresses of the operands and fetching them from memory. If the function could not fetch them from the addresses then they are deduced from the other operands and

Reviewer: I see, now I get what `them` is in `could not fetch them`. Maybe we can change this to:

```suggestion
calculating the addresses of the operands and fetching them from memory. If the function could not fetch the operands then they are deduced from the other operands and
```

	}
	op0, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op0_addr)

	op1_addr, err := vm.RunContext.ComputeOp1Addr(instruction, op0)
	if err != nil {
		return Operands{}, fmt.Errorf("FailedToComputeOp1Addr: %s", err)
	}
	op1, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op1_addr)

	if op0 == nil {
		deducedOp0, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp0(&instruction, dst, op1)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op0 = deducedOp0
		if op0 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op0_addr, op0)
		}
		res = deducedRes
	}

	if op1 == nil {
		deducedOp1, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp1(instruction, dst, op0)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op1 = deducedOp1
		if op1 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op1_addr, op1)
		}
		if res == nil {
			res = deducedRes
		}
	}

	if res == nil {
		res, err = vm.ComputeRes(instruction, *op0, *op1)

		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
	}

	if dst == nil {
		deducedDst := vm.DeduceDst(instruction, res)
		dst = deducedDst
		if dst != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(dst_addr, dst)
		}
	}

	operands := Operands{
		Dst: *dst,
		Op0: *op0,
		Op1: *op1,
		Res: res,
	}
	return operands, nil
}
```

> #### ComputeDstAddr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### ComputeDstAddr

```
Add one `#` more, so that it's included in the `Compute operands` section. Also, add the newline before the heading.

> The method `ComputeDstAddr` computes the address of value that will be stored in the Destination operand. It checks which register is the relative to (wether AP or FP) and gets the direction by adding the instruction's first offset(off0) to the corresponding register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method `ComputeDstAddr` computes the address of value that will be stored in the Destination (dst) operand. It checks which register is the relative to (whether ap or fp) and gets the direction by adding the instruction's first offset (off0) to the corresponding register.
```

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeDstAddr(instruction Instruction) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable
	switch instruction.DstReg {
	case AP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case FP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	}

	if instruction.Off0 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off0))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off0))
	}

}
```

> #### ComputeOp0Addr

Reviewer: ```suggestion

##### ComputeOp0Addr
```
Add one `#` more, so that it's included in the Compute operands section. Also, add the newline before the heading.

> ###### ComputeOp0Addr

Reviewer: Is `ComputeOp0Addr` included in the `ComputeDstAddr` section? If not, it should have 5 `#`, not 6.

Author: It is included in compute operands. maybe i added one more #

> The process is similar to compute the dst address.

Reviewer: Maybe it's clearer like this?:
```suggestion
This method is similar to `ComputeDstAddr` but it uses the instruction second offset (off1) to add the selected register (ap or fp).
```

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeOp0Addr(instruction Instruction) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable
	switch instruction.Op0Reg {
	case AP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case FP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	}

	if instruction.Off1 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off1))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off1))
	}
}

```

> #### ComputeOp1Addr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### ComputeOp1Addr
```
Add one `#` more, so that it's included in the Compute operands section.

> ###### ComputeOp1Addr

Reviewer: Is `ComputeOp1Addr` included in the `ComputeDstAddr` section? If not, it should have 5 `#`, not 6.

> It computes the address of `Op1` based on  the `Op0` operand and the kind of Address the instruction has for `Op1`, If its address is `Op1SrcFp` it calculates the direction from Fp register, if it is `Op1SrcAp` then if calculates it if from Ap register. If it is an immediate then checks if the offset 2 is 1 and calculates it from the `Pc`. Finally if its an `Op1SrcOp0` it checks the `Op0` and calculates the direction from it. Then if performs and addition or a substraction if the `Off2` is negative or positive.

Reviewer: Maybe with bullet points? Also, a few corrections:

```suggestion
It computes the address of `Op1` based on  the `Op0` operand and the kind of Address the instruction has for `Op1`.

- If its address is `Op1SrcFp` it calculates the direction from Fp register.
- If it is `Op1SrcAp` then it calculates the direction from Ap register.
- If it is an immediate then checks if the offset 2 is 1 and calculates the direction from the `Pc`.
- Finally, if its an `Op1SrcOp0` it checks `Op0` and calculates the direction from that operand.

Then if performs and addition or a subtraction if the `Off2` is negative or positive.
```

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeOp1Addr(instruction Instruction, op0 *memory.MaybeRelocatable) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable

	switch instruction.Op1Addr {
	case Op1SrcFP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	case Op1SrcAP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case Op1SrcImm:
		if instruction.Off2 == 1 {
			base_addr = run_context.Pc
		} else {
			base_addr = memory.NewRelocatable(0, 0)
			return memory.Relocatable{}, &VirtualMachineError{Msg: "UnknownOp0"}
		}
	case Op1SrcOp0:
		if op0 == nil {
			return memory.Relocatable{}, errors.New("Unknown Op0")
		}
		rel, is_rel := op0.GetRelocatable()
		if is_rel {
			base_addr = rel
		} else {
			return memory.Relocatable{}, errors.New("AddressNotRelocatable")
		}
	}

	if instruction.Off2 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off2))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off2))
	}
}
```

> ###### DeduceOp0

Reviewer: Is `DeduceOp0` included in the `ComputeDstAddr` section? If not, it should have 5 `#`, not 6.

The method deduces the value of `Op0` if possible (based on `dst` and `Op1`).
If Instruction opcode is a call `Op0` is deduced from the program counter and added the instruction size.

> If it is and `AssertEq` then a second switch case is used to check what `ResLogic` is, if it is `ResAdd` `Op0` is deduced from the substraction of `Op1` to `Dst` or if is is `Resmul` the `Op0` is deduced from the division of `Dst` and `Op1` (both felt values). otherwise op0 is nil.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it is an `AssertEq` then a second switch case is used to check what `ResLogic` is.

- If it is `ResAdd`, `Op0` is deduced from the subtraction of `Op1` to `Dst`.
- If it is `ResMul` the `Op0` is deduced from the division of `Dst` and `Op1` (both felt values).
- Otherwise `Op0` is nil.
```

```go
func (vm *VirtualMachine) DeduceOp0(instruction *Instruction, dst *memory.MaybeRelocatable, op1 *memory.MaybeRelocatable) (deduced_op0 *memory.MaybeRelocatable, deduced_res *memory.MaybeRelocatable, error error) {
	switch instruction.Opcode {
	case Call:
		deduced_op0 := vm.RunContext.Pc
		deduced_op0.Offset += instruction.Size()
		return memory.NewMaybeRelocatableRelocatable(deduced_op0), nil, nil
	case AssertEq:
		switch instruction.ResLogic {
		case ResAdd:
			if dst != nil && op1 != nil {
				deduced_op0, err := dst.Sub(*op1)
				if err != nil {
					return nil, nil, err
				}
				return &deduced_op0, dst, nil
			}
		case ResMul:
			if dst != nil && op1 != nil {
				dst_felt, dst_is_felt := dst.GetFelt()
				op1_felt, op1_is_felt := op1.GetFelt()
				if dst_is_felt && op1_is_felt && !op1_felt.IsZero() {
					return memory.NewMaybeRelocatableFelt(dst_felt.Div(op1_felt)), dst, nil

				}
			}
		}
	}
	return nil, nil, nil
}
```

##### DeduceOp1

The method deduces the value of `Op1` if possible (based on `dst` and `Op0`) it also deduces `res` if possible.

> If the instruction opcode is `AssertEq` a switch case is used to check what the `ResLogic` is, if it is a `ResOp1` then the value of op1 is equal to the dst operand. If `ResLogic` is `ResAdd` op1 is deduced from the substraction of `dst` with `op0`. Finally if it is `ResMul` `op1` is deduced from the division of `dst` with `op0`, in all the cases `res` is equal to `dst`. if none of the former cases apply then nil is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the instruction opcode is `AssertEq` a switch case is used to check what the `ResLogic` is.

- If it is a `ResOp1` then the value of `Op1` is equal to the `dst` operand.
- If `ResLogic` is `ResAdd`, `Op1` is deduced from the subtraction of `dst` with `Op0`.
- Finally, if it is `ResMul`, `Op1` is deduced from the division of `dst` with `Op0`

In all the cases `res` is equal to `dst`. If none of the former cases apply then nil is returned.
```

```go
func (vm *VirtualMachine) DeduceOp1(instruction Instruction, dst *memory.MaybeRelocatable, op0 *memory.MaybeRelocatable) (*memory.MaybeRelocatable, *memory.MaybeRelocatable, error) {
	if instruction.Opcode == AssertEq {
		switch instruction.ResLogic {
		case ResOp1:
			return dst, dst, nil
		case ResAdd:
			if op0 != nil && dst != nil {
				dst_rel, err := dst.Sub(*op0)
				if err != nil {
					return nil, nil, err
				}
				return &dst_rel, dst, nil
			}
		case ResMul:
			dst_felt, dst_is_felt := dst.GetFelt()
			op0_felt, op0_is_felt := op0.GetFelt()
			if dst_is_felt && op0_is_felt && !op0_felt.IsZero() {
				res := memory.NewMaybeRelocatableFelt(dst_felt.Div(op0_felt))
				return res, dst, nil
			}
		}
	}
	return nil, nil, nil
}

```
##### ComputeRes

> If the Res value has not been deduced in the previous steps then it is computed based on the `Op0` and `Op1` values and the res logic stored in the instruction.

Reviewer: What do you mean with `res logic`?

Author: is how it is called in the Instruction struct. i will change it.

If `ResLogic` is `ResOp1` then `res` is equal to `op1`. If it is `ResAdd` then `res` is deduced from the addition of `op0` with `op1`. If it is `ResMul` `res` is deduced from the multiplication of `op0` and `op1`. Otherwise `res` is nil.

```go
func (vm *VirtualMachine) ComputeRes(instruction Instruction, op0 memory.MaybeRelocatable, op1 memory.MaybeRelocatable) (*memory.MaybeRelocatable, error) {
	switch instruction.ResLogic {
	case ResOp1:
		return &op1, nil

	case ResAdd:
		maybe_rel, err := op0.Add(op1)
		if err != nil {
			return nil, err
		}
		return &maybe_rel, nil

	case ResMul:
		num_op0, m_type := op0.GetFelt()
		num_op1, other_type := op1.GetFelt()
		if m_type && other_type {
			result := memory.NewMaybeRelocatableFelt(num_op0.Mul(num_op1))
			return result, nil
		} else {
			return nil, errors.New("ComputeResRelocatableMul")
		}

	case ResUnconstrained:
		return nil, nil
	}
	return nil, nil
}
```

##### DeduceDst

> if the destination value has not been calculated before then it is deduced based on the Res value. If the opcode is an `AssertEq` then dst is equal res.

Reviewer: Is `Res value` the value of the `res` operand? If it is, please rename `Res value` to `res operand`.

Reviewer: Also,
```suggestion
If the destination value has not been calculated before then it is deduced based on the Res value. If the opcode is an `AssertEq` then dst is equal res.
```

> If it is a `Call` then is value is taken from the `Fp` register 

Reviewer: `then is value`
I think the `is` is wrong here, but I don't know what should go here instead.

Author: maybe its.

#### Compute operands

> *Compute operands*

Reviewer: There's already a title for this. We can remove it.

> Once the instruction has been decoded, it is executed by `run_instruction` whose first function is compute operands. This function is in charge of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the instruction has been decoded, it is executed by `run_instruction` whose first function is to compute operands. This function is in charge of
```

> calculating the addresses of the operands and fetching them from memory. If the function could not fetch them from the memory then they are deduced from the other operands and

Reviewer: Maybe something like:
```suggestion
calculating the addresses of the operands and fetching them from memory. If the function could not fetch the addresses then they are deduced from the other operands and
```

	}
	op0, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op0_addr)

	op1_addr, err := vm.RunContext.ComputeOp1Addr(instruction, op0)
	if err != nil {
		return Operands{}, fmt.Errorf("FailedToComputeOp1Addr: %s", err)
	}
	op1, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op1_addr)

	if op0 == nil {
		deducedOp0, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp0(&instruction, dst, op1)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op0 = deducedOp0
		if op0 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op0_addr, op0)
		}
		res = deducedRes
	}

	if op1 == nil {
		deducedOp1, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp1(instruction, dst, op0)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op1 = deducedOp1
		if op1 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op1_addr, op1)
		}
		if res == nil {
			res = deducedRes
		}
	}

	if res == nil {
		res, err = vm.ComputeRes(instruction, *op0, *op1)

		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
	}

	if dst == nil {
		deducedDst := vm.DeduceDst(instruction, res)
		dst = deducedDst
		if dst != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(dst_addr, dst)
		}
	}

	operands := Operands{
		Dst: *dst,
		Op0: *op0,
		Op1: *op1,
		Res: res,
	}
	return operands, nil
}
```

> *ComputeDstAddr*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### ComputeDstAddr

```

> The method `ComputeDstAddress` computes the address of value that will be stored in the Destination operand. It checks which register is the relative to (wether AP or FP) and gets the direction by adding the instruction's first offset(off0) to the corresponding register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method `ComputeDstAddr` computes the address of value that will be stored in dst. It checks which register is the relative to (wether ap or fp) and gets the direction by adding off0 to the corresponding register.
```

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeDstAddr(instruction Instruction) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable
	switch instruction.DstReg {
	case AP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case FP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	}

	if instruction.Off0 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off0))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off0))
	}

}
```

> *ComputeOp0Addr*

Reviewer: ```suggestion

##### ComputeOp0Addr

```

> The process is similar to compute the dst addr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function is similar to `ComputeDstAddr`.
```

#### Compute operands

Once the instruction has been decoded, it is executed by `RunInstruction` whose first function is to compute operands. This function is in charge of
calculating the addresses of the operands and fetching them from memory. If the function could not fetch the operands then they are deduced from the other operands and

> taking in consideration what kind of opcode is going to be executed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
taking in consideration what kind of opcode is being executed. 
```

	}
	op0, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op0_addr)

	op1_addr, err := vm.RunContext.ComputeOp1Addr(instruction, op0)
	if err != nil {
		return Operands{}, fmt.Errorf("FailedToComputeOp1Addr: %s", err)
	}
	op1, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op1_addr)

	if op0 == nil {
		deducedOp0, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp0(&instruction, dst, op1)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op0 = deducedOp0
		if op0 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op0_addr, op0)
		}
		res = deducedRes
	}

	if op1 == nil {
		deducedOp1, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp1(instruction, dst, op0)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op1 = deducedOp1
		if op1 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op1_addr, op1)
		}
		if res == nil {
			res = deducedRes
		}
	}

	if res == nil {
		res, err = vm.ComputeRes(instruction, *op0, *op1)

		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
	}

	if dst == nil {
		deducedDst := vm.DeduceDst(instruction, res)
		dst = deducedDst
		if dst != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(dst_addr, dst)
		}
	}

	operands := Operands{
		Dst: *dst,
		Op0: *op0,
		Op1: *op1,
		Res: res,
	}
	return operands, nil
}
```

##### ComputeDstAddr

> The method `ComputeDstAddr` computes the address of value that will be stored in the Destination (dst) operand. It checks which register is the relative to (wether ap or fp) and gets the direction by adding the instruction's first offset(off0) to the corresponding register.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The method `ComputeDstAddr` computes the address of value that will be stored in the Destination (dst) operand. It checks which register it's relative to (whether ap or fp) and gets the direction by adding the instruction's first offset(off0) to the corresponding register.
```

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeDstAddr(instruction Instruction) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable
	switch instruction.DstReg {
	case AP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case FP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	}

	if instruction.Off0 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off0))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off0))
	}

}
```
##### ComputeOp0Addr

> This method is similar to `ComputeDstAddr` but it uses the instruction second offset (off1) to add the selected register (ap or fp)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This method is similar to `ComputeDstAddr` but it uses the instruction's second offset (off1) to add to the selected register (ap or fp)
```

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeOp0Addr(instruction Instruction) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable
	switch instruction.Op0Reg {
	case AP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case FP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	}

	if instruction.Off1 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off1))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off1))
	}
}

```

##### ComputeOp1Addr

> It computes the address of `Op1` based on  the `Op0` operand and the kind of Address the instruction has for `Op1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It computes the address of `Op1` based on the `Op0` operand and the kind of Address the instruction has for `Op1`.
```
Extra space

- Finally if its an `Op1SrcOp0` it checks the `Op0` and calculates the direction from it.

Then it performs and addition or a substraction if the `Off2` is negative or positive.

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeOp1Addr(instruction Instruction, op0 *memory.MaybeRelocatable) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable

	switch instruction.Op1Addr {
	case Op1SrcFP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	case Op1SrcAP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case Op1SrcImm:
		if instruction.Off2 == 1 {
			base_addr = run_context.Pc
		} else {
			base_addr = memory.NewRelocatable(0, 0)
			return memory.Relocatable{}, &VirtualMachineError{Msg: "UnknownOp0"}
		}
	case Op1SrcOp0:
		if op0 == nil {
			return memory.Relocatable{}, errors.New("Unknown Op0")
		}
		rel, is_rel := op0.GetRelocatable()
		if is_rel {
			base_addr = rel
		} else {
			return memory.Relocatable{}, errors.New("AddressNotRelocatable")
		}
	}

	if instruction.Off2 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off2))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off2))
	}
}
```

##### DeduceOp0

> The method deduces the value of `Op0` if possible (based on `dst` and `Op1`).

Reviewer 2: Mention that it can also deduce res and how (like in DeduceOp1)

> If Instruction opcode is a call `Op0` is deduced from the program counter and added the instruction size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the instruction's opcode is  `Call`, `Op0` is deduced by adding the instruction size to the program counter.
```

- If it is an `AssertEq` then a second switch case is used to check what `ResLogic` is.

> - If it is `ResAdd` `Op0` is deduced from the substraction of `Op1` to `Dst` or if is is `Resmul` the `Op0` is deduced from the division of `Dst` and `Op1` (both felt values). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If it is `ResAdd` `Op0` is deduced from the substraction of `Op1` from `Dst`,  if is is `Resmul` the `Op0` is deduced from the division of `Dst` and `Op1` (both felt values). 
```

	switch instruction.Opcode {
	case Call:
		deduced_op0 := vm.RunContext.Pc
		deduced_op0.Offset += instruction.Size()
		return memory.NewMaybeRelocatableRelocatable(deduced_op0), nil, nil
	case AssertEq:
		switch instruction.ResLogic {
		case ResAdd:
			if dst != nil && op1 != nil {
				deduced_op0, err := dst.Sub(*op1)
				if err != nil {
					return nil, nil, err
				}
				return &deduced_op0, dst, nil
			}
		case ResMul:
			if dst != nil && op1 != nil {
				dst_felt, dst_is_felt := dst.GetFelt()
				op1_felt, op1_is_felt := op1.GetFelt()
				if dst_is_felt && op1_is_felt && !op1_felt.IsZero() {
					return memory.NewMaybeRelocatableFelt(dst_felt.Div(op1_felt)), dst, nil

				}
			}
		}
	}
	return nil, nil, nil
}
```

##### DeduceOp1

The method deduces the value of `Op1` if possible (based on `dst` and `Op0`) it also deduces `res` if possible.
- If the instruction opcode is `AssertEq` a switch case is used to check what the `ResLogic` is.
- If it is a `ResOp1` then the value of op1 is equal to the dst operand.

> - If `ResLogic` is `ResAdd` op1 is deduced from the substraction of `dst` with `op0`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If `ResLogic` is `ResAdd` op1 is deduced from the substraction of `op0` from `dst`. 
```

> - Finally if it is `ResMul` `op1` is deduced from the division of `dst` with `op0`, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If it is `ResMul` `op1` is deduced from the division of `dst` by `op0`, 
```

In all the cases `res` is equal to `dst`. if none of the former cases apply then nil is returned.

```go
func (vm *VirtualMachine) DeduceOp1(instruction Instruction, dst *memory.MaybeRelocatable, op0 *memory.MaybeRelocatable) (*memory.MaybeRelocatable, *memory.MaybeRelocatable, error) {
	if instruction.Opcode == AssertEq {
		switch instruction.ResLogic {
		case ResOp1:
			return dst, dst, nil
		case ResAdd:
			if op0 != nil && dst != nil {
				dst_rel, err := dst.Sub(*op0)
				if err != nil {
					return nil, nil, err
				}
				return &dst_rel, dst, nil
			}
		case ResMul:
			dst_felt, dst_is_felt := dst.GetFelt()
			op0_felt, op0_is_felt := op0.GetFelt()
			if dst_is_felt && op0_is_felt && !op0_felt.IsZero() {
				res := memory.NewMaybeRelocatableFelt(dst_felt.Div(op0_felt))
				return res, dst, nil
			}
		}
	}
	return nil, nil, nil
}

```
##### ComputeRes

If the Res value has not been deduced in the previous steps then it is computed based on the `Op0` and `Op1` values.
- If `ResLogic` is `ResOp1` then `res` is equal to `op1`. 

> - If it is `ResAdd` then `res` is deduced from the addition of `op0` with `op1`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If it is `ResAdd` then `res` is deduced from the addition of `op0` and `op1`. 
```

#### Compute operands

Once the instruction has been decoded, it is executed by `RunInstruction` whose first function is to compute operands. This function is in charge of

> calculating the addresses of the operands and fetching them from memory. If the function could not fetch the operands then they are deduced from the other operands and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calculating the addresses of the operands and fetching them from memory. If the function could not fetch the operands then they are deduced from the other operands,
```

	}
	op0, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op0_addr)

	op1_addr, err := vm.RunContext.ComputeOp1Addr(instruction, op0)
	if err != nil {
		return Operands{}, fmt.Errorf("FailedToComputeOp1Addr: %s", err)
	}
	op1, _ := vm.Segments.Memory.Get(op1_addr)

	if op0 == nil {
		deducedOp0, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp0(&instruction, dst, op1)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op0 = deducedOp0
		if op0 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op0_addr, op0)
		}
		res = deducedRes
	}

	if op1 == nil {
		deducedOp1, deducedRes, err := vm.DeduceOp1(instruction, dst, op0)
		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
		op1 = deducedOp1
		if op1 != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(op1_addr, op1)
		}
		if res == nil {
			res = deducedRes
		}
	}

	if res == nil {
		res, err = vm.ComputeRes(instruction, *op0, *op1)

		if err != nil {
			return Operands{}, err
		}
	}

	if dst == nil {
		deducedDst := vm.DeduceDst(instruction, res)
		dst = deducedDst
		if dst != nil {
			vm.Segments.Memory.Insert(dst_addr, dst)
		}
	}

	operands := Operands{
		Dst: *dst,
		Op0: *op0,
		Op1: *op1,
		Res: res,
	}
	return operands, nil
}
```

##### ComputeDstAddr

> The method `ComputeDstAddr` computes the address of value that will be stored in the Destination (dst) operand. It checks which register its is relative to (wether ap or fp) and gets the direction by adding the instruction's first offset(off0) to the corresponding register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method `ComputeDstAddr` computes the address of the value that will be stored in the Destination (dst) operand. It checks which register its is relative to (wether ap or fp) and gets the direction by adding the instruction's first offset(off0) to the corresponding register.
```

	case AP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case FP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	}

	if instruction.Off0 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off0))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off0))
	}

}
```
##### ComputeOp0Addr

This method is similar to `ComputeDstAddr` but it uses the instruction second offset (off1) to add to the selected register (ap or fp)

```go
func (run_context RunContext) ComputeOp0Addr(instruction Instruction) (memory.Relocatable, error) {
	var base_addr memory.Relocatable
	switch instruction.Op0Reg {
	case AP:
		base_addr = run_context.Ap
	case FP:
		base_addr = run_context.Fp
	}

	if instruction.Off1 < 0 {
		return base_addr.SubUint(uint(math.Abs(float64(instruction.Off1))))
	} else {
		return base_addr.AddUint(uint(instruction.Off1))
	}
}

```

##### ComputeOp1Addr

It computes the address of `Op1` based on the `Op0` operand and the kind of Address the instruction has for `Op1`.
- If its address is `Op1SrcFp` it calculates the direction from Fp register.
- if it is `Op1SrcAp` then if calculates it if from Ap register. 
- If it is an immediate then checks if the offset 2 is 1 and calculates it from the `Pc`. 

> - If its an `Op1SrcOp0` it checks the `Op0` and calculates the direction from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If it is an `Op1SrcOp0` it checks the `Op0` and calculates the direction from it.
```

[TODO for Execution: Opcode Assertions, Run Instruction]

> 

Reviewer: Please, remove these newlines

  }
 }
 return nil

> }

Reviewer: I don't think we should remove this

*Step*

```go
    //TODO
```

*Decode instruction*

```go
    //TODO
```

*Run instruction*

```go
    //TODO

> ```

Reviewer: I think line 650 already has this. We can remove it.

Author: done

If this method returns a nil error, it means operands were computed correctly and we are good to go!

```go
func (vm *VirtualMachine) OpcodeAssertions(instruction Instruction, operands Operands) error {
	switch instruction.Opcode {
	case AssertEq:
		if operands.Res == nil {
			return &VirtualMachineError{"UnconstrainedResAssertEq"}
		}
		if !operands.Res.IsEqual(&operands.Dst) {
			return &VirtualMachineError{"DiffAssertValues"}
		}
	case Call:
		new_rel, err := vm.RunContext.Pc.AddUint(instruction.Size())
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}
		returnPC := memory.NewMaybeRelocatableRelocatable(new_rel)

		if !operands.Op0.IsEqual(returnPC) {
			return &VirtualMachineError{"CantWriteReturnPc"}
		}

		returnFP := vm.RunContext.Fp
		dstRelocatable, _ := operands.Dst.GetRelocatable()
		if !returnFP.IsEqual(&dstRelocatable) {
			return &VirtualMachineError{"CantWriteReturnFp"}
		}
	}

> 	return nil

Reviewer: I think it's repeated above. We should remove this.

Author: it is duplicated yes. already deleted
